You can create multiple plans for your WordPress product with different pricing options, features, and license counts to cater to various user needs.

## Creating Your First Plan[​](#creating-your-first-plan "Direct link to Creating Your First Plan")

1. Log in via the [Freemius Developer Dashboard](https://dashboard.freemius.com/) and select the relevant product.
2. Go to the **Plans** page.
3. Click **Add Plan** to create a new plan.
4. Add a unique name and specify a title. For example, 'pro' and 'Pro' to the respective fields.
5. Click the "Create New" button.

### Freemium Products[​](#freemium-products "Direct link to Freemium Products")

The Free plan is required to generate the free version during the [deployment process](help-documentation-wordpress-deployment-process.md). Please leave the Free plan as is if you want to have a freemium product with a free version available on WordPress.org.

### Premium-only Products[​](#premium-only-products "Direct link to Premium-only Products")

If you're creating a premium-only product, make sure to delete the Free plan that is generated by default when you create a new product. This will ensure that only the paid plans are available for purchase and license activation, and users won't see a free option when they go to purchase your product. To delete the Free plan, simply click the "Delete" button at the end of the plan's row.

## Setup Pricing for the Plan[​](#setup-pricing-for-the-plan "Direct link to Setup Pricing for the Plan")

The plan can have different pricing options for the plan.

A pricing option refers to a specific number of licenses or sites the configuration applies to. Each pricing option can have different billing cycles, such as monthly, annual, or lifetime.

For example, you can create a **5-Site** pricing option, meaning that after purchasing it, users will be able to activate the product on up to 5 different WordPress sites.

### Single Site Pricing Options[​](#single-site-pricing-options "Direct link to Single Site Pricing Options")

To get started;

1. Fill in the description information about the plan (optional).
2. Then scroll down to the **Pricing** section.
3. Fill in the price for the **Single Site** option choosing combination of the billing cycles (monthly, annual, lifetime) depending on the plan offering.

### Bulk Pricing Options[​](#bulk-pricing-options "Direct link to Bulk Pricing Options")

You can also create pricing options for plans that offer more than one license activation for multiple sites. To do this;

1. Scroll down to the "Bulk Pricing" section.
2. Click **Add Bulk** and select the desired number of sites from the dropdown, then enter the relevant pricing options. In the example above, we entered $49 as the price for an annual single-site license and added an additional option for a 3-site annual license at $79.

### Localhost License Activations[​](#localhost-license-activations "Direct link to Localhost License Activations")

If you want to allow users to activate their licenses on localhost/development environments, leave the localhost license activations toggle on. This is useful for development and testing purposes, allowing users to test the product without consuming their license activations. See the [License utilization guide](help-documentation-wordpress-license-utilization.md).

## Customize Plan Settings[​](#customize-plan-settings "Direct link to Customize Plan Settings")

You can also customize your product's plans with additional settings, such as:

- [Additional currencies](help-documentation-selling-with-freemius-multi-currency.md)
- [Free trials](help-documentation-wordpress-free-trials.md)
- [Support channels](#configure-a-plans-support-channels)
- [Blocking/Supporting premium features after license expiration](#configure-a-plans-features)

### Configure a Plan's Support Channels[​](#configure-a-plans-support-channels "Direct link to Configure a Plan's Support Channels")

Each created plan can enable support to your customers through a number of channels available in the Freemius Developer Dashboard. To set up the support channels:

1. Under the relevant plan, scroll down to the **Support** section.
2. Enable the appropriate channels.
3. Set the corresponding link details.

note

The email address configured here will be included in the post-purchase emails sent to your product users as a support contact. For more reliable email delivery and management, we recommend setting up dedicated [support email addresses](https://freemius.com/help/documentation/emails/email-settings/).

### Configure a Plan's Features[​](#configure-a-plans-features "Direct link to Configure a Plan's Features")

1. Scroll down the **Features** section, the plan's features can be listed.
2. Fill in the name of the feature and add the other relevant details.
3. Click the **\[+]** button or press Enter to add it to the plan.
4. Repeat the steps above until you've added all the required features.

note

The saved features here can be accessed through the Freemius API. See the [API documentation](https://docs.freemius.com/api/products/list-features) for more details on how to retrieve the plan's features.

tip

If your WordPress product contains a fixed number of features across all paid plans and the only difference is the number of licenses, this is best handled with a single plan.

## Generating Checkout Links[​](#generating-checkout-links "Direct link to Generating Checkout Links")

You can generate checkout links for each of your plans and pricing options to share on your website and marketing channels. This allows customers to easily access the purchase page for the specific plan they are interested in. For more information on generating checkout links, see the guide on

- [Generating Checkout Links for Plans](help-documentation-checkout-integration-hosted-checkout.md#generating-checkout-links-for-plans).
- [Generating Checkout Links for Pricing Options](help-documentation-checkout-integration-hosted-checkout.md#programmatically-generating-checkout-links).

When the customers go to purchase your product, they will see the pricing plans displayed in the [Freemius Checkout](help-documentation-checkout-integration-freemius-checkout-buy-button.md) like this.

## Renewals Discount[​](#renewals-discount "Direct link to Renewals Discount")

For products with recurring billing, you can set up a discount for customers who renew their subscription. This is a great way to incentivize customers to continue using your product and reward their loyalty.

When to offer renewal discounts?

As a rule of thumb, we do not recommend setting a discount for renewals unless your app does not provide a continuous value to users, such as a one-time-use product like migration plugins. In such cases, maybe it is worth setting up a lifetime pricing by adding a value to the [lifetime price input field](help-documentation-selling-templates-templates-plans-pricing.md#set-up-one-time-fee).

## Release the Plans to Users[​](#release-the-plans-to-users "Direct link to Release the Plans to Users")

Ensure your plans are visible to users to facilitate purchases and license activations.

Toggle the "**Release plans to users**" option at the top right of the **Plans** page to enable this.

Disabling this option can also be useful for:

- Testing new plans and pricing options before making them available to users, ensuring that everything works correctly before going live. In such cases, you can [put the SDK in testing mode](help-documentation-wordpress-sdk-testing.md) to test the purchase and license activation flows.
- Retiring products already in the wild allowing you to manage the transition smoothly without affecting existing customers while closing the product to new customers.